(whooshing)
All right, we are going to get
into Keystone in the back end of things
and in order to do that, we first need a database
because Keystone, when we create all of our items
and our schemas and saving products to the database
and uploading images,
all that data gets saved into a database.
Now, Keystone is a layer that sort of sits on top
of a number of different databases.
You can use MongoDB, you can use Postgres,
or you can use Prisma.
Now, we're gonna be using MongoDB.
MongDB is one of my favorite databases.
You'll hear people say they love it or they hate
or it's amazing or it's awful and slow
and I've been using MongoDB for many years.
I run my own course platform on it
and I'm a big fan of it.
So we are getting into that.
Now, you, if you know how to install MongoDB,
and you know ho to make a new database,
you can skip this video.
This video's for people
who don't necessarily have made a database before.
So we have two options for a database.
We can either run MongoDB locally on our computer
and the benefit of that is it's super fast.
If you have like a slow network connection
or you're doing this on an airplane
or something like that,
then you'll be able to do most of it
without having an internet connection.
The downside to that is it can be a little bit difficult
to get MongoDB installed on your specific computer.
So if you take a look at the MongoDB documentation,
they have some ways to get it installed on Windows.
Holy, actually the Windows is not too, too bad.
And installing it on macOS
and it's usually what I'll do
is I run MongoDB in a tab
and that will start it
and sort of run it in the background.
The other way, and what I'm gonna recommend,
so if you want to go down the route of installing it locally
in your computer, you can follow these instructions
to get it up and running.
It's really not too, too bad.
However, the better way is to use MongoDB Atlas.
And this is a hosted service.
It has a very generous free tier.
And what I like about it
is that it's from MongoDB themselves.
They give you a whole layer of like really nice UI
and reporting and analytics on top of your database.
And when it comes time to deploy this sucker
to the internet,
you're gonna have to run it on a public database somewhere
and I use MongoDB myself
on MongoDB Atlas.
So it's really good.
So what I want you to do
is go ahead and start a,
sign up for an account on MongoDB Atlas.
And I'm gonna go through all the steps
on setting it up for you.
If you've watched some of my other tutorials,
which we use Mlab,
the process is a little bit more involved,
so that's why I'm gonna record this.
So once you're signed into your thing,
you're gonna wanna make a new organization
for what you want.
And I'm saying this because you don't wanna mix
like production data
or if you ever wanna share this with a friend,
just make a new organization
and get it nice and clean from the start.
So if you just created a brand new account,
you probably can use whatever organization that you have
but I'm gonna create a brand new one here.
And I'm gonna call it Sick Fits Org.
We want MongoDB Atlas.
And add a member.
Permissions, okay, so this is me.
I've got my, I'm the organization owner.
You can also add additional people.
In my case, I don't need that,
so I'm gonna create the organization.
Okay, so now we create an organization.
That's not a database yet.
That was just like a governing body over our database.
Now, we wanna make a new project,
which I found very confusing but the word project
is a database.
So create a new project, we're gonna call it Sick Fits.
Click on Next.
And do we wanna add more people to it?
No.
Create the project.
Then once we're in there,
we need to create a cluster.
Click on build a cluster.
We wanna go for the shared free cluster.
It's extremely cheap when you get into running them
but we just want the free one.
So create that.
This is kinda cool.
It asks you where do you wanna put your data?
So in our case, I'm gonna go AWS on us-east-1.
That's the one that always goes down
that most of the internet is hosted on.
Cluster tier, we are on the Sandbox,
which is free forever.
And it doesn't given you any backup.
MongoDB version that you want.
It probably doesn't matter which version you want.
If they set that as the default,
then just go with that.
And then finally, cluster name.
Let's call it SickCluster.
I'm sure you can think
of some other fun names for a cluster.
So go ahead and create it.
Now, this will take, I don't know,
a couple minutes or so.
While that is going on,
let's open up our Keystone backend
and get to configging this database.
So I'm gonna open up my terminal here.
And I'm gonna go to our Sick Fits directory
and I'm gonna go into the backend folder.
We have already an npm install on this directory
but you should have done that earlier.
And then I'm going to just open up that
in another VS Code window
and you see that it is pink at the top
so that it shows us that this is our backend.
Now, in order to get going on the backend,
we need to put all of the information
about connecting to our database somewhere safe
because if you just put the connection strings
and the passwords and the usernames
and all of that information,
if you just put that in like a JavaScript file,
then what ends up happening
is that that data goes into your version control
and it's not good to have that sort of secret data in there.
So we need to put it in a .env file
and the .env file does not go into your version control.
It is just for local development
and then when we deploy, we'll figure out
how to replicate all of these.
These are called environmental variables in there.
So this is a sample file of all the environmental variables
that we will be using in here.
What I want you to do is to, and this is super important,
we need to rename this, okay?
A lot of people always get tripped up on this part
in my courses.
You've gotta rename it.
Don't leave it as sample.env.
You wanna rename it to just .env.
Okay?
Now let's go through it.
Cloudinary, that's for image uploading.
We'll get that. COOKIE_SECRET.
Go ahead and change this to literally anything.
Literally anything.
This just has to be a random string
because when we sign our cookies
and when we generate them,
they are based on this, what is in here.
So don't do what I did.
Do something, literally any other string
of characters in the human race do that.
DATABASE_URL.
Okay, so this is where we're going
to put the MongoDB URL once we get it.
STRIPE, that's for check out.
We don't need that.
As email, we'll hit that
and then finally, FRONTEND_URL, that's important.
And what are we running?
What are we running our front end URL?
7777.
So that's right, so if you're running on a different port
or whatever, you would change that URL right there.
Okay, looks like it's still being created.
So while we're doing that,
let's open up MongoDB Compass.
That's an app I've had you installed,
and this is a just a nice little tool
that's gonna allow us to connect.
Watch, I'm gonna connect to my local database right now.
I've got all kinds of databases in here.
Let's see, the one that we're working with
is called Sick Fits Keystone
and you'll see that the items are in here.
If I open that up.
Look at it, this is just all the data in our database.
You can view it as a table as well.
And if you ever, for whatever reason,
if the backend ever breaks
or you just wanna manually add or delete data,
you can do that.
This is just a raw database access.
So this is a really nice little database GUI
and big fan of that.
Okay, so it has created our cluster.
Now what we need to do is we need to connect to it.
So we're gonna go ahead and click on Connect.
And it's gonna ask us where do you want
to be able to connect to this database for?
Because by default, MongoDB will only allow connections
from specific IPs that you allow it to.
So normally what would happen
is you would add like IP address from your work machine,
you would add the IP addresses
of the server that you're hosting your application on,
et cetera, et cetera.
And that just stops any malicious actors
who are trying to connect from random IP addresses.
When we're working for this right now,
we just need to allow everybody in
just so you don't get tripped up on it.
Believe me, this is a common problem that we have.
So we wanna click on allow access from anywhere.
And say come on in.
Add an IP address, good.
Then we create a database user.
So we will call that oh,
let's call it sick
and the password is gonna be something good.
Let's just use, 1Password suggested one right here.
I'm gonna call that MongoDB Sick Fits
and I'll save that.
Okay, so save that data just for a second.
I'm gonna copy it.
And I'm just gonna put that in a URL.
Obviously, I'm gonna have to change this
before I deploy this course so you don't see it.
So put those somewhere where you won't lose them
just for a quick second.
And we click create database user, okay?
And then we need to choose a connection method.
So we need a connection string.
So which one?
Mongo Shell, connect your application
or connect using MongoDB Compass.
I think it's connect your application.
Yes, there we go
and then it's gonna give us this URL right here.
So what we'll do is we'll copy that URL.
We'll go back to our .env
and we will paste that into the data URL.
Then what we need to do is we need
to change the username and the password.
It looks like they've already pre-populated the username.
And then the password
that I have here, we need to put that in.
The angle brackets get deleted along with the word password.
So don't leave them in.
And then paste that in there.
The way that we can test if that has worked
is we can go to our MongoDB Compass
and I'm going to connect to a new connection,
paste that in there.
Oh, oh, we forgot one more thing.
The database name, we forgot to replace that.
So let's do that real quick.
We'll name that sickfits.
That's not something we've specified yet, so that is fine.
So again let's paste that in there.
Connect.
And there we go.
So it has connected to our database.
There's obviously nothing in there yet.
But that just shows that we have correctly connected
to the database
and also we've put this into our .env file.
So let's close up here, close
and we have our cluster, you can click through to that
and we'll be able to see our data in here
and all the other information.
The one I really like is the Performance Adviser.
I don't think it comes with it for free.
I pay for it on my own.
Yeah, you've gotta upgrade for that
but I love it because it will tell me when some sort
of thing I'm doing is slow
and it will tell you how to fix it,
which is really cool.
In Keystone, they do most of the database stuff
under the hood for you.
So you likely won't hit those issues
but overall, it's nice to have.
So that's connecting to MongoDB.
Let's move into the next video
where we actually configure Keystone
to hook up to this database.